Hello everyone, welcome to new tutorial on programming knowledge. So today we are going
to work with NLTK. So NLTK is basically a PIP package. So PIP is a Python package manager
and NLTK is a PIP package, which is a Python package used for natural language text processing.
So basically you will find all the powerful Python commands and algorithms and like tools
and libraries inside NLTK so and you can refer to like various topics such as text mining
and natural language processing using NLTK. So basically you can advance yourself to
text learning and also provide some machine learning algorithms using NLTK. So let's get
started with today's tutorial. So the first command you need to install inside your machine
is PIP install NLTK. So this would install NLTK on your machines and since it says requirement
already satisfied because I've already installed the NLTK package inside your inside my machine
so it says requirement already satisfied. Then next you can do you can do import NLTK
and you can type NLTK.download. So this is like since I just want to make clear that
since PIP is a Python package manager, in the same way NLTK.download is a package manager
for NLTK itself. So when I run this file, so I can do Python 1.py. Since I have saved
this file using 1.py, so it suddenly opens the NLTK.downloader. So this is a package
manager for NLTK itself. So you can install all the modules and packages here by clicking
by selecting them and click on the download. One you should install before this tutorial
is this punked manager. So how you can install simply what you can do, you just keep the
identifier here since punked is the identifier for the punked tokenizer model. So what you
can do, you can do download, you can type the like identifier and when you run this,
so it will install the specifically the same. So when I run this file, it will download
and it says downloading package punked and punked package is already up to date. Another
you can do either you specify the name or what you can do, you can simply run Python
1.py and you can like run all the pack, you can download all the packages from here. Okay,
so you can click on this corpora models and all packages and either clip them, click them,
you can also select them and click on download and you can click here for refresh. The another
way is I've already told you that you can mention the package. So let's start with tokenization
today. So tokenization is a very basic concept. Okay, this is a text which is in the triple
quotes. Okay, so make sure you observe this. This is in triple quotes and it has a space
after every dot like this. This is the way we are handling this. Okay, now what you can
do, you can do the first you can do from nntk.tokenize import word underscore tokenize and print word
underscore tokenize text. Okay, now let's run this. So I'll come in this and I'll move
to this part. So let's run this and I'll do type Python 1.py and let's start this. So here you
can see that all words have been separated. So this is the word tokenization. Okay, now let's
come in this. Now let's move with another one. So you can do from nntk.tokenize import
sent underscore tokenize and now you can see this word I will do print sent underscore
tokenize text. Okay, so yeah, now you can run this. And here you can say welcome you to
programming knowledge. Let's start with the first written nntk. We shall learn the basis of nntk
here. So you can see now the sentence tokenization has been observed. So achieve another thing you
can do. Okay, so like what you can do. So you can do from nntk.nltk.probability. So you can type
and so I'm not sure that this packet has been installed. So if it throws an error, we would
resolve this. Probability import frequent distribution. Okay, so this and then I would do it frequent
distribution. Okay, so this takes a parameter as tokenized words. Okay, so let's, okay, I'll do
this. What I can do, I'll comment, I'll what I'll do. This should be inside tokenized word
underscore tokenize is equal to word underscore tokenize and I'll pass text. Okay, and I'll
also comment this out. So and this would take this as a parameter word underscore tokenize. So make
sure you notice a different this is word underscore tokenize and this is good to go now. Okay, let's
run this. Yeah, so with frequency distribution with 21 samples and 24 outcomes. Okay, so this is
the it shows and you can type a function what I can show you, you can even store this inside the
variable fd. Okay, and yeah, so now you can install the source in the variable fd and you can type
fd.most underscore common. And how much common you need to find either you can find the utmost
most two common or most three common. So let's do most three common. Okay, so let's run this. Now you
can see. So it says dot is the most common entity gives it to and welcome. So this is a stop word.
And in future context, we will refer how to move this talks stop words because they are of no use.
Okay, so another thing you can install is a Python package which is pip install matplotlib. Okay,
matplotlib. So you can do pip install matplotlib. So this will install the matplotlib on your local
machine. And like, you can read this to for a second to over. And this is like the noise
computer. Okay, so you can import this on the top import matplotlib.pyplot as plot. Okay,
so you can matplotlib.pyplot as plot. And then you can what you can do. So then you can what you
can do. You can sense you can frequency fd dot plot. Okay, plot. And you can do
30 as a scale and cumulative is equal to false. Okay, and then you can do plot dot show. Okay,
so now it's good to go. And then we can run this. Okay, and let's run this. Okay, now we're running.
So, so this may take a moment. So now you can see that since like it was building the font
cache, this may take a moment. So, so this is the graph it has plot. So like, this is like the
frequency is the one and the frequency NLTK. Like, so this is how we have achieved this. So
like, I told you that dot had a frequency of three, and NLTK of two welcome with one. So NLTK
refer to the three frequency and the sorry, the dot refer to the three frequency, NLTK refer to
the frequency of two. So this is the scale you can see. Okay, and this is how we achieve this.
And this is the graph you can plot. Okay, so this is like NLTK refers to the frequency of two dot
frequency of three. And this is we achieve this. So this is the most interesting and basic
tutorials. So I'll get you in the next tutorial. So thank you everyone for watching this. Thank you.
